Let's define what JPA is.
The Java Persistence API is a Java specification for accessing,
persisting and managing data between Java objects and a relational database.
JPA allows objects to be easily persisted without
requiring the classes to implement any interfaces or methods.
An objects mapping to a table can be defined through annotations or XML,
although in this lesson we'll only be using annotations as
it's the most common way of defining Object Relational Mapping.
Just like JDBC, JPA is a specification.
We'll be using Hibernate as our JPA implementation.
Hibernate predates JPA and is the pioneer in Java Object Relational Mapping.
JPA was actually inspired from Hibernate.
An object that is managed by JPA is called an Entity.
JPA provides an interface called EntityManager to work with entities.
Let's see how to use EntityManager to operate on entities.
The first step in configuring JPA is to define a persistence unit.
It is done in a file called persistence.xml which you need to put in your class path.
There are two important things.
The first is the JDBC driver information that is necessary to access the database.
As you might've guessed,
JPA uses JDBC under the covers for database access.
Then the location of the entity needs to be defined.
Location in this case is the fully qualified name of the class.
Let's look at the entity.
All entities must be annotated with at entity annotation.
The table annotation maps the entity to the table
provided in the name attribute which is others.
The field that maps to the primary key of the table should be annotated as @Id.
The generated value annotation tells JPA that this field is
generated by the database and won't be included when an entity is persisted.
There are a few other ID generation strategies which are covered in the next section.
All other fields include
the column annotation which maps the fields to the appropriate columns.
I have a class here with a simple main method.
Now, we use the persistence unit to create the entity manager factory.
Using the factory we create an entity manager.
Then we start a transaction,
create an entity, persist it,
and close the transaction.
Note that the entity does not include the primary key as it is generated by the database.
If we need to load an entity,
we follow a similar set of steps.
Create the EntityManager, use the find method to load the entity using its primary key.
You can use the remove method to delete the entity.
Let's run this class to check if the persist and find
work as expected,
and it did.
We can see the order ID that is printed here using the system println here,
and we also see the other entity being printed here which is in the read order method.
Hibernate also prints the SQL statements that it sends to the database.
So here you can see the select statement used to read the order,
and if you scroll above,
we could also see the insert statement that it did to persist the order entity.
For the sake of completeness,
I am going to look at the table to see if the row got inserted, and it did.
In Java, an object has a life cycle.
It gets instantiated, and once there are no references to it,
it gets garbage collected.
Similar to that, an entity has a life cycle.
When an entity is created it is in a transient state.
The EntityManager is not aware of this entity yet.
Once it's persisted using the persist method,
it enters the persistent state.
In this state, it maintains a link to the table representing this object in the database.
Any changes made to the entity will get propagated to
the database until the EntityManager is closed.
If an entity in persistent state should not propagate it's changes to the database,
then it should be detached using the detach method.
Calling detach puts it in the detached state.
If an entity is removed from the database using the remove method,
it enters the remove state.
At this point, there is a reference to that entity
in Java or the corresponding row has been deleted.
An entity can directly enter the persistent state if it's loaded from
the database using one of the fine methods or through a JPA query.
In order to work effectively with JPA,
it is important to understand this life cycle.